#summary This page describes from where to obtain a pre-packaged Eclipse and how we suggest to set up your workspace.

=Installing Eclipse=

A *pre-packaged Eclipse* can be obtained from [http://public.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/kdsl/eclipse-SDK-4.2-linux-gtk-ukp-20120727-x86_64.tar.bz2 the UKP public file server].
   * Download and install the latest pre-packaged version for your platform.
   * If you like, adapt the template script [https://wiki.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/pub/SIG_KDSL/EclipseInstall/start_eclipse.sh start_eclipse.sh], which configures your workspace, e.g., environment variables; this is not strictly necessary, however.

Currently supported platforms are:

   * Ubuntu Linux x86 64bit
   * Sun Java Development Kit 1.6 or !OpenJDK shipping with Ubuntu

The pre-packaged bundles are based on the Eclipse Classic distribution from http://www.eclipse.org which includes the Java Development Tools and the Eclipse Plug-in Development Environment. In addition at least the following plug-ins are also pre-installed

   * Version Control: Subclipse 1.8.x , see: http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.8.x
      * please do not use Subversive. Everybody in the group uses Subclipse and this is the only "supported" Subversion plugin at UKP.
   * Maven Integration: m2e , is included in Eclipse Classic. Use Help->Install New Software, select "--All available sites--" and choose Collaboration -> m2e - Maven Integration for Eclipse
   * Subclipse/Maven Integration: Subclipse Maven Integration, update site: http://subclipse.tigris.org/m2eclipse/1.0/
   * Apache UIMA tools , see: http://www.apache.org/dist/uima/eclipse-update-site/.
   * Task Management: Mylyn, is included in Eclipse Classic. Use Help->Install New Software, select "--All available sites--" and choose Collaboration -> Mylyn

Other plug-ins may also be included. A full list should be included in the README file accompanying the pre-packaged bundle.
