Barack Hussein Obama II (born August 4, 1961) is the 44th and current President of the 
United States, the first African American to hold the office. Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, 
Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was president of 
the Harvard Law Review. He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law 
degree. He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the 
University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. He served three terms representing the 
13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully for the 
United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the 
United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote 
address at the Democratic National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in 
November. He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary 
campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party 
primaries to receive the presidential nomination. He then defeated Republican nominee John 
McCain in the general election, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009. Nine 
months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. He was re-elected 
president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney, and was sworn in for a 
second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in 
response to the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009 and the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 
2010. Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act, often referred to as "Obamacare"; the Doddâ€“Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act; the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010; the Budget Control 
Act of 2011; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. In May 2012, he became the first 
sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration 
filed briefs which urged the Supreme Court to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act of 
1996 and California's Proposition 8 as unconstitutional. In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. 
military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, signed the New 
START arms control treaty with Russia, ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya, and 
ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.